Now, let's discuss a concept that can
help you identify your strengths and
allow you to highlight
those strengths to others:
An elevator pitch.
An elevator pitch is a brief summary of
your experience, skills, and background.
It's called an elevator pitch
because it should be short enough to
say in 60 seconds or less,
which is the average amount of time
you might spend talking
with someone on an elevator.
Elevator pitches allow
you to demonstrate who you are
to potential employers
in a very short time span.
They can be used at job fairs, career
expos, and other networking situations,
like professional conferences and
social media job sites such as LinkedIn®.
Now, let's examine how to
create an elevator pitch.
Your elevator pitch needs to be short and
persuasive.
There's no need to list all of your
previous experiences and accomplishments.
Instead, explain who you are and why you
care about being a security professional,
as well as the qualifications and
skills you have that are specifically
related to getting a job
as a security analyst.
For example, critical thinking,
problem-solving, and
the ability to build collaborative
relationships with others
are transferable skills that most
organizations are looking for.
So, highlight those in
your elevator pitch.
You could also mention technical
skills you've learned in this certificate program,
such as using various SIEM tools and
programming languages
like SQL and Python
to identify and respond to risks.
Now, we'll cover a few things to avoid
when delivering your elevator pitch.
It's important to avoid rambling, or
sharing irrelevant details,
during your elevator pitch.
Potential employers only
want to know who you are and
why they should consider you for
a security role.
As you develop your elevator pitch,
you're going to want to
practice it several times.
However, don't practice it so
much that you end up sounding ingenuine or
robotic when it's time to share your
pitch with a possible decision maker.
Instead, speak naturally, like you're
having a conversation, when you give your
elevator pitch.
That will help keep people engaged and
interested in what you're saying.
Another thing to avoid:
speaking too quickly.
Because an elevator pitch is fairly short,
it can be easy to rush through it.
But that can cause people to miss out
on some key skills you have to offer,
simply because you sped past them.
One last tip: search the internet for
elevator pitches to find
examples that may help you
generate ideas for your own pitch.
In essence, your elevator pitch
is a way to tell people why you
are an amazing candidate for
a security position with great skills and
a clear direction for
what you want to do in your career.
While it's natural to be nervous when
speaking to potential employers, just remember:
take a deep breath,
gather your composure, and
deliver your pitch with confidence,
conviction, and at a normal pace.
You'll be just fine.